Project  Requirements  
The purpose of the Project Requirements  assignment is for you to describe your 
project in more detail than in your prospectus. You should approach your 
project in an orderly manner by defining the problem and overall requirements 
and choices before you undertake the programming work.  
The report  contains your initial understanding of the  requirements and  design 
of your project (see below Written reports section to know what is expected in 
the report). You will take the feedback provided by the instructors and what you 
have learned over the semester to provide a better design specification report  
later. 
At least 2 days before the due date, you should deliver a copy to your 
sponsor to allow them to read and okay your document . 
 
Prepare your document in a 1.15-spaced  format with a  12-point font . The 
document must  be two to three  Full written pages  MAX. 
Written report  
If you  have any questions , please discuss the content of your project 
requirements  with your instructor. Use citations as appropriate  and do not 
bullet point descriptions . 
 
• Title Page  (* not included in length of paper)  – The title of your project,  
your info (name and email) along with your  sponsor ’s info (name and 
email) . 
 
• A short (paragraph) Project overview  – Describe what the topic of the 
problem  entails - its context /purpose /story and  your motivation or 
reason  (without specifying an y languages or tools  and do  not rehash or 
state the MVP ). 
 
• User requirements   
o clearly explain the Minimum Viable Product ( it is possible to alter 
the MVP later *see the More information section below ) to complete 
the project successfully (the MVP must be approved by your 
sponsor and the instructor [s] of the course ), you may also define 
other product features that you plan or desire to deliver beyond the 
MVP. Again, not bulleted lists, but a paragraph.  
o include disclosure of any code used in another CS course you plan 
to use while developing your project.  
o Application projects - briefly describe in generalizations the 
different types of system users  (what are the main reasons for 
different users, administrator, employee/member, regular user, 

etc.). Include at least two user stories for each user of your system 
that supports your MVP  (do not go into specific detail s e.g. a user 
goes to page x and clicks button y , the details will be in other 
documents later ).  
o Research projects - in leu of user types and stories, who will benefit 
from the project  (this could be multiple people)  and what questions 
you are trying to answer/solutions you are trying to find.  
o Video Game projects – a detailed game play loop (how a player 
interacts with the game, game functionality, rough idea of 
mechanics). Simply stating roguelike, shooter, or basic genre will 
not suffice.  
 
• Design  Choices  - Describe what possible  technology languages, tools, 
frameworks,  databases, datasets,  etc. you are considering  or could be  
used for a project like yours (this should come from your research into 
the project) .  You should have multiple possibilities  to compare  and 
contrast by discuss ing the advantages and disadvantages of  each similar  
technology  in relation  to the needs of  your project  (not generalized 
aspects of the tech) . Later, i f your selected design  choice doesn’t work 
out, this will provide alternative options to choose from . DO NOT inform 
the reader what you plan to use for the project.   
o External Components  - Provide an estimate of each external 
components  makeup for the project (how much of the project come 
from these components and include links to the applications or 
tutorials)  
▪ List all external applications - API’s  – if used.  
▪ List any code not developed by you or tutorials  - if used  
 
• Project timeline  as a list  – Must include  upcoming milestones  (do not 
list dates  that have already past ), that is, the major tasks and the target 
dates for completion  (both your dates and the courses  due dates ). 
 
 
Convert your document to a pdf  and s ubmit your report  by the due date to 
Blackboard . 
 
 
More Information about altering  your MVP  
Any additional functionality made  to your MVP throughout the semester is 
allowed and highly encouraged. A change of project description or topic must 
be made as a formal request in writing to your instructor  with sponsor approval 
and as earlier as possible . The faculty will use the MVP to evaluate your project 
at the end of the semester. NOTE: if you make changes that are not approved, 
they will not be considered in the evaluation of your final project.  